{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Select Abstractions (various, selinfo)\

\b0 \
Select abstractions are a variety of small patchers that perform useful functions with varying outputs. Particularly useful for keeping a patcher tidy when many selects are being used. Also includes an object named selinfo which can be placed into a patcher and opened to remind oneself of the various functions and which one does the required task.\
\
selinfo: Information on all other select abstractions.\
sel0: Args: 1. Outputs a '0' if the input matches the argument. Outputs nothing if it does not.\
sel1: Args: 1. Outputs a '1' if the input matches the argument. Outputs a '0' if it does not.\
sell2: Args: 1. Outputs a '1'  if the input does not match the argument. Outputs a 0 if it does.\
self3: Args: 2. Outputs the second argument if the input matches the first. Outputs a '0' if it does not.\
self4: Args: 2. Outputs a '0' if the input matches the first argument. Outputs the second argument if it   	 does not.\
self5: Args: 3. Outputs the second argument if the input matches the first. Outputs the third if it does 	 not.\
self6: Args: 4. Outputs the second argument if the input matches the first. Outputs the fourth 	 argument 	 if the input matches the third. Outputs nothing if there is no match.\
self7: Args: 6. Outputs the second argument if the input matches the first. Outputs the fourth 	 argument 	 if the input matches the third. Ext to 6 & 5. Outputs nothing if there is no match.\
self8: Args: 8. Outputs the second argument if the input matches the first. Outputs the fourth 	 argument 	 if the input matches the third. Ext to 6 & 5, 8 & 7. Outputs nothing if there is no 	 match.\
self9: Args: 1. Outputs a '1' if the input matches the argument. Outputs nothing if it does not.\
sel10: Args: 2. Outputs the second argument if the input matches the first. Outputs nothing if it does 	  not.\
selgate: If the Input matches the variable, the gate will open. A different value will close. To open the 	     gate with anything but the variable, see selgate2\
selgate2: If the Input does not match the variable, the gate will open. If it is the same the gate will 	       close. To open the gate with a matching variable, see selgate.}