{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16140\viewh12600\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Launchpad (launchpad)
\b0 \
\
Launchpad is a utility that allows for the automatic filtering of messages from the Novation Launchpad into Max/MSP in a convenient format, and allows for lighting feedback to be sent back to the launchpad. It also includes programming to allow for the top row to be used for 'menu' style function, i.e. one 'page' being open at a time, and the launchpad reflecting this. There is also the function to clear all lights.\
\
NOTE: There are four versions of this patcher. All work in M4L, however, if you are using a M4L midi effect, use the normal 'launchpad' patch, or 'launchpadftm' if using FTM, and therefore the 32bit version of Max / Live. If using a M4L instrument, use the patch named 'launchpad_m4l_ins' or 'launchpadftm_ins' if using FTM, and therefore the 32bit version of Max / Live. This is due to the different way that midi is received in each environment.\
\
NOTE: FTM is, amongst other things, a library from Ircam for Max, although sadly hasn't yet been updated for 64bit. Find details here: http://ftm.ircam.fr \
\

\b Usage\
\

\b0 Copy the launchpad project folder into your Max/MSP search path. Create a new object in a project where you wish to use your Launchpad, and name the object 'launchpad' (or one pf the variants mentioned earlier). Opening this will allow you to view the programming and notes.\
\
Pressing one of the top row buttons will light up that button, extinguishing the other toprow buttons that are lit. Only one can be lit at one time, imitating the 'page' function. The message for which page has been requested is received by a 'receive' object with the name 'toprow', and will be in the format of a single digit referring to the page number (1 - 8 from left to right). To switch to a different page remotely (i.e. without pressing a button on the Launchpad), send the page number to 'toprowback'.\
\
Messages from all other buttons, including the right hand column, are received by the name 'padstate'. The format of this message is 'midinotenumber number' where number is '1' upon pressing a button, and '0' upon release. The midi-note numbers for each row and end button are included in the patch window.\
\
The required signals for the Launchpad for lighting is routed into the send object with the name 'restore', and is in the format 'midinotenumber number' where the number is the colour you wish the button to change to. A list of the midi-note numbers and the colour numbers are included in the patch window.\
\
Pressing and holding all four corners of the main 8x8 matrix will extinguish all colours. This is especially useful as Max/MSP doesn't automatically turn all the lights off upon quitting. Also, it allows for easy resetting when re-starting a patch, or moving onto another project.\
\
\
}